TITLE: Please Save Me- West Campus Apartments Studios/1bd
SOURCE: https://www.reddit.com/r/UTAustin/comments/z9fu0r/
SUBREDDIT: r/UTAustin
POSTED: 2022-12-01
RETRIEVED: 2026-06-11
CATEGORY: review
---
Hi all,

Can we talk about housing? During the 2023 academic year, I will have an incoming freshman daughter. There is a strong inclination among my daughter towards an apartment off campus, looking at studios and one bedrooms (she really does not want roommates). There is nothing more frustrating than trying to navigate what should seem like a very straight forward process. Slimy sales, insufficient pictures, lack of tourability, fake/incentivised reviews, and unknown/lack of availability make the process extremely difficult. Can anyone tell me about an apartment they absolutely adore? Aside from purchasing a condo on West Campus, where would you sign a lease? Can you recommend any services that provide more of a concierge element to figuring out housing so that I don't have to rip my hair out and age overnight? I was blown away by the leasing tours at the Standard, but once you look past the marketing propaganda, all the problems become clear. In terms of housing, I feel way behind the curve and would appreciate ANY help! Live in Southern California so trying to plan tours accordingly.

--- COMMENTS ---

[score 44] The above are correct, some kind of realtor would help.  However, I would strongly recommend your daughter reconsider living in the dorms for a year.  Students who do that generally have greater networks of friends and support.  They also frequently do better and adapt quicker to college life.

[score 22] This big time. Tell her that most freshman live on campus and that it will make it so much easier to get involved in activities and make friends (if you read other posts on this subreddit, you can see a lot of people, especially transfer students who spent their first year at UT off-campus, often struggle with this). I love my off campus apartment but I have no regrets about living in the dorms my freshman year, and all my friends (who I met in the dorms) agree.

It will also buy time to search around for a nice apartment and she may get good recommendations from the people she meets, and have a better understanding of what locations would be the most appealing.

[score 14] Housing Scout might help y'all. Basically like a realtor. I think the agents get paid from the apartments, so it's free. https://housingscout.com/

[score 10] I get that you want to meet what your daughter wants but also, it has been proven that those who live in the dorms their freshman year tend to do much better overall than those who don't.

If you still decide to send her to west campus, know that most of the big apartment complexes on west campus are shitty in terms of what it says on the lease. Their interior is usually good but there's usually always problems. But also, if she really wants to live on campus, I'd honestly have her be a part of the whole thing cause she's the one that's going to have to deal with negatives that pop up when she's living there. Disclaimer here is that my mom couldn't really read english so I had to figure out how to navigate that dumb shit while I was a freshman cause I didn't want a shared space either. There was always something and it's not like my mom even knew what living in the city was like. 

I lived for two years on the Block on W 25th & Pearl (It was mostly okay except for the parties they'd constantly have on the rooftop) before I moved to South Austin (West Travis Heights neighborhood), which I enjoyed WAY more than West campus as a student.

[score 10] Consider Castilian for her first year. It’s dorm type in that there is a cafeteria but have plenty of 1 bedrooms available at a reasonable price with parking and security.

[score 4] This is my second year of living in the dorms and am currently looking for my own place, and I have friends who have always lived alone off-campus. I would recommend that your daughter stay in the dorms for at least her first year. Dining and housing are all one payment, you make friends so much easier because of dorm events, and all your classes are a ten-minute walk or less. I know people who live off-campus who barely have any friends and skip class so often because the bus system is difficult to navigate, and you don't want to have to do that in your first year when you're still figuring everything out.

[score 3] I had a great experience at Moontower and had no issues at all.

[score 3] I agree that Housing Scout is the best way to tour places.

[score 2] I recommend the dorms for 1st years, but if you're set on off campus consider looking at North Campus instead of West Campus. Lots of quadplexes and townhomes instead of big buildings with corporate landlords so you're much more likely to be able to actually tour.

[score 2] GrandMarc is really good. It's off campus but it's only a 3 minute walk to campus. Good appliances and management. They'll always pick up a phone call or call you back quickly. If there's an issue, everything gets fixed quickly. Highly recommend

[score 2] Wow, wonder how she became such a fuckup with a dad who calls her a bitch online

[score 2] Moontower must be near perfect. Leasing agent mentioned an 80%+ retention (re-lease) rate and a wait list from previous terms.

[score 2] Thank you so much, it’s on the list! Glad to hear good things.

[score 2] Join the official Texas Parents Facebook page (you have to join Texas Parents org to get access) and also join the unofficial UT parents Facebook page called “The Coffee Shop and Whiskey Bar”.  You will find plenty of advice from parents on housing and also recs for real estate agents to assist you.  I would recommend on campus dorm for first year and consider 2400 Nueces for sophomore and beyond.  Also check out SRD (Scottish Rite Dormitory - a private form off campus).  Safety should be a number one consideration for any living arrangement you consider.

[score 1] It’s not you, the group is set to private so you can’t find it if you aren’t a member.  If we were friends on Facebook or if you know other longhorn parents that happen to be following that page, I or they would be able to invite you to the group.

[score 1] Apparently I am computer illiterate! Couldn't find a link for the Facebook group after joining nor The Coffee Shop and Whiskey Bar on FB.

[score 1] Ha that's funny!

[score 1] I love your perspective. Thank you so much for sharing! ☺️

[score 1] This is true. I am a current first year and find that on campus housing makes it easier to partake in events on campus. Dorm life has gone well for me overall.

[score 1] I do believe that bad parenting is the source of most crises in America so I do take it more personally than most strangers’ behavior on the Internet

[score 1] I’m so sorry you get easily offended by me calling my daughter a bitch. Move along 💋

[score 1] This is great, thank you!

[score 1] Mom here 😘

[score 1] This is great thank you! I’ve heard absolutely wonderful things about SRD and will investigate further.

[score 1] College is about dorm life. Unless she is a social reject who will make more enemies than friends in the dorms, make her live there.

[score 1] Looking into them now, thank you very much!

[score 0] she’s a stuck up bitch—I would feel bad for any roommate she lives with. ❤️

[score -1] Oh right good point it’s usually women who make the nastiest comments about other women lol
