TITLE: DO NOT SIGN A LEASE at Regents West on 26th
SOURCE: https://www.reddit.com/r/UTAustin/comments/1iypq16/
SUBREDDIT: r/UTAustin
POSTED: 2025-02-26
RETRIEVED: 2026-06-11
CATEGORY: review
---
I have lived at this building for three years, and I've had an okay experience by luck alone. Based on my luck with the unit I leased, I recommended this building to others, but I can no longer recommend this building. Here is a LONG itemized list of their multiple failings. Please read them all before signing. 

Consistent problems with the building: 

\- Every 3-6 months, the fire alarms falsely activate, causing great inconvenience and probable hearing damage. Sometimes, the fire alarms are falsely activated 3 or 4 times within 24 hours, including in the middle of the night. Management has referred to some of these instances as "drills," which is a lie. 

\- Management has a pattern of lying or hiding information from its residents. I will highlight examples of this behavior further in the post. 

\- The gym has had sanitation wipes stocked ONCE during my entire 3 years using the facility. Clearly, management does not take care of their amenities. 

Recent problems within this year: 

\- There have been multiple security issues with homeless individuals roaming the building. I believe in shelter as a human right, but with "luxury" rent prices, we should be entitled to effective security. I encountered a homeless individual and alerted the office at around 12:30 pm that day. Later, our community group chat alerted everyone that he was still in the building at 9 pm and was spotted with a knife. This shows that the building refuses to take action even when knowledgeable of security risks. Later, another resident asked about the homeless man with the knife, and allegedly management said there was never a weapon involved. This is one example of their lies. One week later, another homeless individual broke into the building after hours. I alerted management of the second individual, and they replied saying "Unfortunately, we do not offer security." This is unacceptable. Management seemed unconcerned until I made the argument that their bottom line may suffer if there is a reputation of the building being easy to break into. A proper management team strives to fix issues that their residents bring up. This is clearly another case of West Campus management teams exploiting student housing needs to earn the largest profits with no concern for resident safety. 

\- I have had poor internet connection for the entirety of my time at Regents West on 26th. The poor internet got to the point where I could no longer do schoolwork in my bedroom. I had to take Zoom calls and write papers in the living room to be closer to the router. Additionally, I could not make calls in my bedroom or even scroll on social media past 11 PM. The building told us they were upgrading the wifi, but their solution this year was public wifi with no password. I am no internet safety expert, but this seems insecure. 

Earlier problems in previous years: 

\- On Christmas Eve one year, there was a sewage pipe that burst on the 6th floor during a freeze. The only way I found out about this incident was through our community group chat. Management did not alert residents of the pipe burst until confronted about their lack of communication. This is another example of their deceptive tactics. The pipe burst was so bad that, the water leaked all the way down to the 4th floor. I live on the 4th floor, and I was luckily spared any flood damage. However, my friend who lived two doors down from me had flood damage and mold for the rest of her lease. She alerted management and maintenance, but they lied and said it was not mold. In fact, it was mold and she had to take precautions herself to get rid of it. 

\- I have not had a car for the entire 3 years I've lived here, so I have not experienced this. However, there have been multiple people who've experienced car break-ins. To my knowledge, this is happening less now. However, this is another example of management not taking security very seriously. 

In summary, do not lease here. You could end up in a unit with less luck than mine. This list is just off the top of my head. There are most likely other issues that I am forgetting.

--- COMMENTS ---

[score 1] Yeah, and they expect full-time security at an apartment complex where you can rent for $1295/mo? Multiply that price by 4 and maybe it will happen

[score 1] All apartments are kinda shit, it’s what comes with renting

[score 1] This also goes for the regents west 24th location. It’s HORRIBLE

[score 1] I find everything pretty reliable. The people here all have experienced relatively negative occasions, they fail to mention all the great things about living here such as nice room spaces, quick maintenance, great office workers, clean spaces, and cheaper-than-most parking. Yeah there's its problems, but it could be far worse such as living in The Block, Castilian, Moon Tower, etc where the rooms are concrete blocks, terrible offices, and overpopulated elevators.

For me, everything's been mostly great except what's been mentioned here. The Wi-Fi is now really good imo, I can play online games with great reliability. I just think some units have less luck than others. Also, your son being in a single on the 4th floor means he gets the router to himself, so there should be no problem :D. Hope this helps.

[score 1] yes, I was totally unaware of renter's rights and how the system works for a long time. You don't want to become a part time lawyer but its a good idea to check out NOLO Renter's Rights book and to document as much as possible, including with your phone camera.

[score 1] I live at the Rise and really like it. I also have a friend at Lark who highly recommends it.

[score 1] They've been "upgrading" the wifi for 7 months. Like someone else said, currently is running on a slow public wifi. It is shit right now, but maybe it'll actually be upgraded by the time your son is there.

[score 1] I lived at Axis West on longview and 25th and loved it! DO NOT LIVE AT THE BLOCK that place sucks i had flooding and mold

[score 1] now we have a WiFi that has no password to it. real secure 🤒

[score 1] your username is taking me out, so real 😭

[score 1] If you are looking for leasing in West Campus, 26th West is also a good place in Wampus, but the rooms are usually all rented. I also heard some apartments at The Block and Legacy on Rio are decent. Def, expensive though.

I also heard Halstead Co-op was decent, but I never lived there. Co-ops are usually less expensive though.

I have been living in a Co-op under ICC Austin for a couple years. I will say that things have been getting a tad shady lately with the non-profit we’re under, but I personally have a good experience under them. ICC is usually lenient with rent as long as you give justification/proof from FA. They also don’t hound you unless you don’t do your house chores. 
I’d say the experience itself depends on which Co-op you decide to live in. The worst I had to deal with was a minor roach infestation (due to people not cleaning dishes) and a minor flea issue (my house allows pets). 

Other than that, I recommend co-ops if you are looking for lower rent and don’t mind living with other people. There might be alternatives outside of Wampus, but that’s only if you are willing to travel.

[score 1] A bit off topic but I totally get it. Regents freaking sucks.

I was trying to move in to Regents my Freshman year, but the manager (or whoever was in charge) made it a pain every step of the way because I was poor and underaged when I applying. (I turned 18 less than a month before Fall semester.)
My family is low income and I was applying for a single room apartment designated for low-income students. I already explained to them that rent wouldn’t be an issue due to me having a full ride, and that I just needed FA to drop. Apparently this wasn’t enough and I needed a co-signer to make sure I paid rent. Also, she said ‘it wasn’t safe for just my mom to be a cosigner because she doesn’t make enough money’ (once again, this is for LOW INCOME HOUSING). I had to get an additional cosign from my GRANDMOTHER who doesn’t make that much either!
Moreover, the lady at Regents was trying to get us pay double the rent to cover July AND August (I wasn’t moving in until late August), and required it to be paid in June when FA doesn’t drop until August. Even after explaining this to her, she still wouldn’t budge!! I was already doing a horrible summer job at the time to even pay for a ride to UT and the Orientation.
So yeah, after several months of back and forth I just stopped responding, didn’t go through with signing the lease. Ended up with a Co-Op housing which has been wonderful.

I’m soooo glad I dodged this bullet and I’m sorry you had to go through this.

Tldr, Don’t sign a lease for Regents it’s a scam. If you are low-income student/Incoming Freshman I highly recommend Co-Op housing.

[score 1] it’s not shit they’re just changing providers rn so it was just confusing for a while. have never had significant connection issues other than that and i’ve lived here for years.

[score 1] Lauren & nueces coop, other coops are iffy imo.

[score 1] Fuck!!! My son just got a single on 4th floor is internet shit?!

[score 1] If you want to be treated decently? Nowhere in wampus they are all predatory because they know you don't have the money to sue them or the experience to know how badly your being treated. Coops are more community based but they are old, most are not up to code and ik sometimes have issues with their own management. Dorms are run by UT, 2400 Nueces is too, so that would also be a good idea to move there.

[score 1] The one that went off at 4am the night of the election too, we were out there for like 45 mintutes

[score 1] To add the way that the first homeless man came in was because the garage doors do not close all the way, no wonder we have break ins 

ALSO I have emailed them many times about there lack of communication, sometimes I will find random men in my apartment who are doing the wifi (which hasn't been up for 6 months) with no warning!! I live with 2 other women! I have also had men on my balcony with no warning and I caught them looking into my window while I had pj's and I was told taht they didn't have to inform me about it. Also my bedroom has the router but even when informed that my bedroom is the one with the router the men will still go through my roommates rooms to find it.

The main manager for 26th (woman) is a bitch about it too. She makes u go through hoops to even be heard. 

Fuck regents west do not lease here.

[score 1] The last straw was the 7am fire alarm that they claim is a "drill" like fuck off

[score 1] where would you recommend leasing instead?

[score 1] 🔥🔥🔥🔥🔥🔥
