TITLE: Guidance on Housing for Incoming Freshman at UT Austin
SOURCE: https://www.reddit.com/r/UTAustin/comments/180xpk0/
SUBREDDIT: r/UTAustin
POSTED: 2023-11-22
RETRIEVED: 2026-06-11
CATEGORY: comparison
---
Hi, I will hopefully be a freshman at UT Austin in Fall 2024. I heard that housing gets filled up pretty fast, so I wanted to book a dorm/appt now. Unfortunately, other than what I've heard on their website, I do not know much about the housing options at UT Austin. So, I need help finding a off or on campus place suitable for me. I am female and will be a double major in MIS and CS and here are some things I am looking for: 

1.) Quiet and clean hallways - I am social but I sleep early, around 10:30 pm, so I need the walls to be thick and low noise. LOW noise is very important 

2.) Private bathroom shared with one, maybe two roommate(s)

3.) Vegan and healthy food options and/or kitchenette

4.) Spacious bedroom + decent closet 

I have heard that San Jac gets loud because "it has a lot of athletes", is that true?

Moreover, I have read that Castilian and Callaway House (two of the off-campus housing options I am looking at) "smell like weed, are full of rich entitled people, have bad food, and are very loud at nights", is that true?

--- COMMENTS ---

[score 1] If you have not already done so, check out [FAQ: What housing options are available?](/r/UTAustin/wiki/housingoptions) on the [r/UTAustin FAQ](/r/UTAustin/wiki/faq).

[score 1] duren is def much less social than jester and san jac and the quietness is pretty common at most dorms aside from if u get unlucky on a jester floor or south tower san jac 

as a freshman ill really emphasize living on campus helps a lot if you're social, wanna join orgs, etc you're just less motivated to make friends or go out when u live 15 mins away from everyone

me and my roommate get along well so honestly i havent had that problem but it is something that ive heard from other friends just make sure u know ur roommate's habits well

[score 1] Yes, they accept credit/debit card. I think they also have meal plans for off campus students that you could buy if you find yourself going there often

[score 1] Austin community college

[score 1] >I would assume most west campus apartments are filled with a majority of UT students, but there could be ACC students or other non-students there as well!

Whats ACC?

[score 1] HI! Im thinking of compromising on noise for west campus space. But if you dont feel like cooking then can you still get food at J2 and Kins?

[score 1] While west campus is definitely loud and expensive, it's cheaper than on campus and it shouldn't be too loud that's it's unbearable to sleep... however I haven't lived there yet.

I'm going to live at The Standard next year in a 4x4 for around $1350/month and the amenities there are amazing (big gym, pool, lots of study areas, gas station/market connected to building, etc) and the apartment is really nice based off the in person tour and what people have told me. It's also not too far from Guadalupe street (basically the divider between campus and West campus)

North campus is an option that would be cheaper but it's a bit further and I don't think the apartments will be as nice.

[score 1] I would assume most west campus apartments are filled with a majority of UT students, but there could be ACC students or other non-students there as well!

[score 1] Is Axis West Campus full of UT Austin students? Is it exclusively UT students? I would love to live around people my age who go to the same school. Is it quiet during the nights are the walls thick? Does it provide food? If so, how is the food?

[score 1] I personally live at Axis West Campus, but moon tower and Waterloo I heard are great as well

[score 1] What off-campus places do you recommend?

[score 1] Good luck! I’m a current freshmen and I love living off campus, it’s great!

[score 1] as a vegetarian i can recognize that kins is better than most, but it’s kind of sad that i can recognize that since it’s still not very goof

[score 1] Each one has kind of a different personality like 21st St. is the fun hippie one for example

[score 1] Oh i didn't know that that was an option. Which ones would you recommend? I'll start reading up about them

[score 1] Thank you!

[score 1] >the price to me wasnt an issue but its also like 2k more expensive for a much more private room also all priv bath rooms are around the same price i think, also the noise from games is negligible, i chose the room b/c i wanted a dorm that was nicer than jester but also not completely anti-social, duren is just too far from the main parts of campus that I couldn't justify it

I've heard that duren is "soulless" and antisocial because it is "full of engineers" is that true? I am social yes, but I am a morning person, and really need it to be quiet at night. 

So you're saying that for San Jac I cant req North tower right? I am leaning between duren, san jac, and a off campus option (not west campus). But I cant decide whether social aspects or sleep is more important. 

Some people told me its better to get a place with a communal bathroom is better because you and your roommates dont get into fights about who will clean and when and who will use it first. Is that true?

[score 1] I recommend looking into college houses co-ops the experience of resident democracy and interacting with other people from all over the world really can’t be beat as a college experience

[score 1] i’m vegan and the selection gets repetitive, but theres different options everyday so i felt like there was a some variation. there's different food-related events throughout the year and there's always a vegan option for the events (seafood day, vegan seafood options. stuff like that). i don't know how it compares to other dining halls bc i primarily ate there, but i don't think it was too bad

[score 1] I mean you can do that if you want. Some people who are auto admit will still go to UT even if they don't get the major they want and just be undeclared hoping to transfer into a different major, so it makes sense for them to sign a lease. For CS, transferring in is basically impossible, so if you are dead set on CS and don't get in, I would recommend you go elsewhere. Thus, I would recommend you don't sign anything until you are 100% sure you know you're going there

[score 1] No, they're practically the exact same dorm. There will be no difference at all in noise.

[score 1] 1850 a month but you don't have to pay for the months you're not there and food is included. Every off campus apartment has 12 month leases, so unless you're interning in Austin or something, you're going to wind up eating 3 months of rent.

[score 1] Much more so on weekends. My west campus apartment always had more problems with noise than my dorm. Although my bigger complaint was early morning construction noise across the street, which happened every single day.

[score 1] Eh, I don't agree with this. I'd say you won't get exactly this anywhere in Austin, but it's honestly more likely from a dorm than most off-campus options. Maybe a house in north campus would be quieter than a dorm, but then you have to cook your own food.

[score 1] Honestly, you're being too picky about everything but food.

No housing arrangement that involves other people living next to you is ever going to be quiet 100% of the time. No one wants it to be loud while they're sleeping, so I am not understanding what is unique about your needs over anyone else who lives in a dorm. The dorms aren't perfectly quiet, but I was always able to sleep when I wanted to, and I went to bed around 10:30 often.

The only differences with a private bathroom are that you won't see anyone as you're walking to the bathroom and you have to clean it yourself, because your roommate won't. I had a community bathroom, and there were always toilets and showers available, they were cleaned 2x/day, and it made very little difference in my life.

I know the dining halls had vegan options, but I don't know if they're any good. In general, the dining halls were pretty average cafeteria food. It got boring sometimes, but it was nice never having to cook!

I didn't live in San Jac, but my floor in Jester had a lot of athletes, and they were fine to live next to. I don't think anyone wanted to sleep more than them lol. The main differences between dorms are size and age, but it's going to be a similar experience no matter which one you end up at. You could go off campus, but it's more of a crapshoot, you don't have an RA, it's probably going to be more expensive, you're further from things, you probably wouldn't meet as many people, etc. Your comments about Castilian and Callaway are pretty funny. UT in general is full of rich, entitled people, and I always got the impression that Callaway was even more so. I'm sure their food is fine. I'd bet places like that are louder at night than dorms, but can't say for sure. No idea about weed smell.

Based on what you're saying, you should look for a condo or house in north campus if you want to live off campus. It's more of a real neighborhood and less of a crazy highrise area. But I'd recommend living on campus!

[score 1] 5th floor South SanJac is actually very quiet. You’ll never really have a noise issue. Might occasionally have to deal with weed from lower floors passing up but that depends on the room

[score 1] I also wanna add living on campus is rlly important imo the first year, hard to make friends if u dont

[score 1] Kins sounds like the best option for u,it’s really quite and got a suite style bathroom. food isnt great, but they got vegan options

[score 1] I loved the dining halls for like 3 months then I got tired of it. But I feel like it’s inevitable to get tired of any dining hall’s food after awhile. I think the selection is good, but I’m also not a vegan.

[score 1] Yeah definitely don’t go to Castilian or Callaway if you’re looking for a quiet place to live. To be honest I’d recommend looking at apartments that upperclassmen live in. The freshmen places are more noisy I think. Tbh you may want to avoid west campus. North is a lot quieter, although it’s mostly grad students I think.
